# Analyzing IMDb Ratings of Scooby-Doo Episodes

by Regression Rockstars (James Cai, Steph Reinke, Sarah Wu, Michael Zhou)

## Summary

Scooby-Doo is a popular animated TV show that follows a group of teenagers and a talking Great Dane, Scooby-Doo, as they solve mysteries involving supernatural monsters and creatures. Each episode typically involves seeking and scheming to find the villain, ending with a dramatic unmasking of the monster. We use a dataset from Kaggle that contains a hand-collected information on every episode of Scooby-Doo up until February of 2021. Our primary research question was what factors best explain the variability in the IMDb ratings of Scooby-Doo episodes? We hoped that our findings would help future Scooby-Doo reboots in considering what elements to include in an episode to generate a high IMDb rating. We wanted to investigate how various predictor variables in the dataset like `monster.amount`, character that unmasks the villain (`unmask.fred`, and such for all five characters part of the main group), `network`, and more, adequately explain the variability in IMDb ratings. Through multiple linear regression and the use of 3-fold cross-validation, we found our optimal model which predicted `imdb` with `network`, `monster.amount`, and `unmask_villain`, with an interaction between `monster.amount` and `unmask_villain`, through comparing statistics like AIC, BIC, and adjusted R-squared. Using this model, we found that episodes containing fewer monsters as well as episodes airing on networks like CBS, Cartoon Network, and Boomerang tended to generate the highest IMDb ratings.
